INTRODUCTION TO COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCES

Session 1

Obective : help why you would learn about Neurosciences (what are your objectives learning the course)
Quick eval of previous knowledge
Presentation of the module

Program today:
Position of neuroscience within cogscience
Are cognitive neurociences necessarily reductionist
Why should we care about neural impelementation
Know what you know and assess what you need to learn
Course organization

Infer minds to other > projecting intentions

(David Marr's levels of explanation)
* "Computational theory"
= goal of the system ?
what is the goal of x? (evolutionary perspective for instance)

* Representation and algorithm
What are the representations that we need to do x?
What kind of operations will we perform on it?

* Hardware implementation
Electronics => how to implement an algorithm...


Are cognitive neurosciences necessarily reductionnist ? ie will it render the other disciplines useless ?

Horace Barlow (1953) : link between neuronal selectivity and behaviour : gangion cell of the frog's retina
"Thinking is brought about by neurons and we should not use phrases like
	'unit activity relects, reveals, or monitors thought processes', becaue the activities of neurons, quite simply, are thought processes".


examples where a psychological construct has explainatory power without knowing the implementation ?
-> model of respons time : random oriented walk (attention on the stimulus or not) => accumulation process
-> ambiguity reduction by combining evidence with priors (Bayes formula) + neuronal firing can "encode" probability

Why should we care about the implementational level?
Philip Johnson-Laird (1983)
"The computer is the last metaphor; it need never be supplanted"

But there are some examples that proove that the implementation is key in understanding some functions :
> drugs
> computational limitation
> ...

Does it matter that the mind is matter ?
> change the way we teach...
> psychiatric diseases

Objectives of the courses:
> overview of current knowledge
> bridging different levels of description from molecular/cellular to psychology
> basic knowledge on techniques and logic of investigation in neuroscience
